README.md, before:

## Hatch

# Overview

Hatch is a card game where you manage dragons from the egg to the battlefield to build the strongest dragon dynasty. Each dragon has a unique value; summed together, they form the value of your dynasty. The first player to reach 200 points triggers the end of the game, and the player with the most points wins.

# Cards and board

## Card

![image](https://github.com/agrum/Hatch/assets/2688838/6f9aa779-b4b8-4b3e-8dea-8ff730607472)

## Board

![HatchBoard drawio (1)](https://github.com/agrum/Hatch/assets/2688838/a985c5c1-45e2-48f3-9811-e1ab0ffbaafe)

# Setup

1. Shuffle the deck of cards.
2. Distribute five cards to each player.
3. Place the rest of the deck face down, within reach of all players, as the drawing deck.
4. Select a starting player.

# Taking turns

1. Refill your hand up to five cards.
2. Discard any mercenary dragon you contracted.
3. Perform any internal action as many times as you want, in any order you want.
4. You can perform an attack involving as many hatched dragons as you wish.
5. Perform any internal action as many times as you want, in any order you want.

# Internal actions

Internal actions relate to actions within your territory.

## Laying an egg

You can place any card from your hand face down to indicate it's been played as an egg. The top left section of the card indicates the resources necessary for the egg to hatch. Until you have placed enough resources on the card, the egg will not be able to hatch.

## Nurturing an egg

You can place any card from your hand face up under an egg to indicate it's being used as a resource. Make sure to keep the resource icon at the bottom of the card visible for you and other players. Make sure to provide the proper resources for your egg, as a malnourished egg will not hatch properly. You may look at your egg's requirements whenever you want.

### Wild resource

Some eggs have a more flexible resource requirement, indicated with a ☆ icon in top left section of the card. It indicates any basic resource can be used, square, triangle, circle or wild; but not a sacrifice.

Inversely, some cards provide an all nurturing basic resource, indicated with a ☆ icon in the bottom center section of the card. It indicates it can be used to meet the requirement of any resource for an egg, square, triangle, circle or wild; but not a sacrifice. 

## Hatching an egg

You can turn any egg face up to make it hatch. If the exact resources required for hatching are attached to the egg, the resources are consumed, and the dragon is now on the board, ready to attack. The resources used are sent to the discard pile. If the resources don't match exactly, e.g., not the right resources, too many, or not enough, both resources and dragon are sent to the discard pile.

Every time you hatch an egg, count your dynasty's value. If you hit 200, the end of the game is triggered.

### Sacrifice

Some eggs require a dragon sacrifice to hatch. The sacrifice cost is indicated with a blood droplet icon at the top left section of the card, along with the other basic resource costs. To hatch those eggs, one or more of your dragons must be sacrificed and sent to the discard pile. The blood droplet icon(s) below the dragon's value indicate their sacrifice value. Similarly to basic resources, the exact amount of sacrifice is necessary for a dragon to hatch safely—not too many sacrifices, not too little.

# Attack

An attack is the only action you can perform against another player. It is also the only action that can be performed only once per turn. However, an attack can involve as many of your dragons as you wish.

1. Select a player as a target.
2. Select the dragons from your side you wish to involve in the attack.

Once sent, it is up to the defending player to organize their defence appropriately.

## Defence

Each attacking dragon entering your territory will loot your land if it is not blocked. Only a dragon with a higher value than the attacker can be used to block that specific attacker. Only one dragon can be used as a blocker per attacker; you cannot team up. As a defender, you can either involve your own dragons or mercenary dragons to block each attacking dragon. Mercenary dragons are dragons played directly from your hand, face up but sideways, to indicate their contracted origin. They do not count towards your dynasty victory points pool, but they can defend like any of your own dragons. Once your turn begins, those contracted mercenaries go to the discard pile.

Defence is optional, but not defending gives an advantage to the attacker. Moreover, dragons on either side do not die from combat.

1. Contract as many mercenaries as desired, but each mercenary must be involved in blocking. You cannot contract extraneous mercenaries or mercenaries too weak to block.
2. Place your dragons, hatched or contracted alike, in front of each attacker they will block, one maximum per attacker. You do not need to involve all your hatched dragons, but you must involve all the contracted ones. Only a dragon with a higher value than the attacker can block it.

If all attackers were blocked successfully, it is now the end of the attack, and the attackers return to their territory empty-handed. Otherwise, looting happens.

## Looting

For each attacker that was not blocked, you can choose one of the following actions:

- Steal one egg of your choice, along with all the resources attached to it. The egg and the resources are now on your territory and are yours for all intents and purposes. You may look at the egg card.
- Draw three cards, add them to your hand, and then discard two cards. Those two cards do not need to be the ones you just drew.

After the attack, you can still perform as many internal actions as you wish, especially if you acquired new eggs and/or cards.

# End of game

As soon as a player hatches an egg that brings their dynasty's value to 200 or higher, the end of the game is triggered. The game doesn't end yet, though. The player who triggered the end of the game can continue their turn and try to increase the value of their dynasty even more. Additionally, other players do have a turn until it reaches the starting player, so every player has had the exact same amount of turns.

# Victory

Once the end of the game was triggered and all players have had the same amount of turns in the game, the player with the highest dynasty value wins the game. In a tie, the player who triggered the end of game wins, even if they have a lower dynasty value.

## Thanks

Many thanks for the beta testers: Jason, Alex, Andrew, Shane, Amanda, Kai, Alistair

Commit message:

update turn order and looting rules

README.md, after:

## Hatch

# Overview

Hatch is a card game where you manage dragons from the egg to the battlefield to build the strongest dragon dynasty. Each dragon has a unique value; summed together, they form the value of your dynasty. The first player to reach 200 points triggers the end of the game, and the player with the most points wins.

# Cards and board

## Card

![image](https://github.com/agrum/Hatch/assets/2688838/6f9aa779-b4b8-4b3e-8dea-8ff730607472)

## Board

![HatchBoard drawio (1)](https://github.com/agrum/Hatch/assets/2688838/a985c5c1-45e2-48f3-9811-e1ab0ffbaafe)

# Setup

1. Shuffle the deck of cards.
2. Distribute five cards to each player.
3. Place the rest of the deck face down, within reach of all players, as the drawing deck.
4. Select a starting player.

# Taking turns

1. Discard any mercenary dragon you contracted.
2. Perform any internal action as many times as you want, in any order you want.
3. You can perform an attack involving as many hatched dragons as you wish.
4. Perform any internal action as many times as you want, in any order you want.
5. Refill your hand up to five cards.

# Internal actions

Internal actions relate to actions within your territory.

## Laying an egg

You can place any card from your hand face down to indicate it's been played as an egg. The top left section of the card indicates the resources necessary for the egg to hatch. Until you have placed enough resources on the card, the egg will not be able to hatch.

## Nurturing an egg

You can place any card from your hand face up under an egg to indicate it's being used as a resource. Make sure to keep the resource icon at the bottom of the card visible for you and other players. Make sure to provide the proper resources for your egg, as a malnourished egg will not hatch properly. You may look at your egg's requirements whenever you want.

### Wild resource

Some eggs have a more flexible resource requirement, indicated with a ☆ icon in top left section of the card. It indicates any basic resource can be used, square, triangle, circle or wild; but not a sacrifice.

Inversely, some cards provide an all nurturing basic resource, indicated with a ☆ icon in the bottom center section of the card. It indicates it can be used to meet the requirement of any resource for an egg, square, triangle, circle or wild; but not a sacrifice. 

## Hatching an egg

You can turn any egg face up to make it hatch. If the exact resources required for hatching are attached to the egg, the resources are consumed, and the dragon is now on the board, ready to attack. The resources used are sent to the discard pile. If the resources don't match exactly, e.g., not the right resources, too many, or not enough, both resources and dragon are sent to the discard pile.

Every time you hatch an egg, count your dynasty's value. If you hit 200, the end of the game is triggered.

### Sacrifice

Some eggs require a dragon sacrifice to hatch. The sacrifice cost is indicated with a blood droplet icon at the top left section of the card, along with the other basic resource costs. To hatch those eggs, one or more of your dragons must be sacrificed and sent to the discard pile. The blood droplet icon(s) below the dragon's value indicate their sacrifice value. Similarly to basic resources, the exact amount of sacrifice is necessary for a dragon to hatch safely—not too many sacrifices, not too little.

# Attack

An attack is the only action you can perform against another player. It is also the only action that can be performed only once per turn. However, an attack can involve as many of your dragons as you wish.

1. Select a player as a target.
2. Select the dragons from your side you wish to involve in the attack.

Once sent, it is up to the defending player to organize their defence appropriately.

You cannot attack a player who hasn't had a turn yet.

## Defence

Each attacking dragon entering your territory will loot your land if it is not blocked. Only a dragon with a higher value than the attacker can be used to block that specific attacker. Only one dragon can be used as a blocker per attacker; you cannot team up. As a defender, you can either involve your own dragons or mercenary dragons to block each attacking dragon. Mercenary dragons are dragons played directly from your hand, face up but sideways, to indicate their contracted origin. They do not count towards your dynasty victory points pool, but they can defend like any of your own dragons. Once your turn begins, those contracted mercenaries go to the discard pile.

Defence is optional, but not defending gives an advantage to the attacker. Moreover, dragons on either side do not die from combat.

1. Contract as many mercenaries as desired, but each mercenary must be involved in blocking. You cannot contract extraneous mercenaries or mercenaries too weak to block.
2. Place your dragons, hatched or contracted alike, in front of each attacker they will block, one maximum per attacker. You do not need to involve all your hatched dragons, but you must involve all the contracted ones. Only a dragon with a higher value than the attacker can block it.

If all attackers were blocked successfully, it is now the end of the attack, and the attackers return to their territory empty-handed. Otherwise, looting happens.

## Looting

For each attacker that was not blocked, you can choose one of the following actions:

- Destroy one egg of your choice from the defender's board, along with all the resources attached to it. The egg and the resources are discarded.
- Draw one card from the top of drawing deck or discard deck.

After the attack, you can still perform as many internal actions as you wish, which might come in handy if you acquired new cards.

# End of game

As soon as a player hatches an egg that brings their dynasty's value to 200 or higher, the end of the game is triggered. The game doesn't end yet, though. The player who triggered the end of the game can continue their turn and try to increase the value of their dynasty even more. Additionally, other players do have a turn until it reaches the starting player, so every player has had the exact same amount of turns.

# Victory

Once the end of the game was triggered and all players have had the same amount of turns in the game, the player with the highest dynasty value wins the game. In a tie, the player who triggered the end of game wins, even if they have a lower dynasty value.

## Thanks

Many thanks for the beta testers: Jason, Alex, Andrew, Shane, Amanda, Kai, Alistair, Nathan, Jake
